
Bussiness understanding

1)The company works or gives loans online 
2)The company gives personal loans,bussiness loans and gives finance for some  medical procedures
3)It's mostly similer to the lending club(you can get more information from the following website 
  and if possible watch a few videos of small duration about lending club on youtube to know how it works)
 
   https://www.lendingclub.com/ 
4)The main objective of this project is to find risky applicants from historical data(loan data set).
5)Risky applicants are those borrowers who do not pay money or run off with the lenders money .
6)In the loan data set these risky applicants can be identified from the column loan_status which has a value charged off(defaulters)
7)we have to use EDA to identify those risky applicants. (In other words, the company wants to understand the driving factors (or driver variables)
 behind loan default, i.e. the variables which are strong indicators of default.  The company can utilise this knowledge for its portfolio and risk assessment)



Data understanding :-
for understanding the terms please check the data dictionary file and neha's excel file.
please add more info if you guys have.













Data preperation and cleaning(For this open the data cleaning checklist available in the data cleaning session of EDA module)


1)The loan data set has 39717 observations of  111 variables.
2)Out of these 111 variables almost about 50 from  last have  complete NA values with out any information (please check the data).
3)In the data cleaning session it's said that delete all those columns or variables which have no values.After deleting all those columns you will be left with 57 columns
  (so we'll check for all those columns and delete them,Please give me your opinion about this )
4)After this, we can observe that the column names are not intuitive.. so i am thinking of changing the column names (so that they are more meaningfull and intuitive)
5)Please have a look at the checklist before we proceed further
6)From this i am assuming to change all the character variables to similer case like upper or lower or proper.And some numeric variables like term ,int_rate,emp_length
 are read as character because of some characters like months ,% and > symbols present in those values.
7)First we need to extract the numeric part out of those variables using string manipulation functions using base or string r packages and then convert them to numeric.
8)Column desc (which is description of the loan) has values something like this " Borrower added on 12/22/11 > I need to upgrade my business technologies.<br>" .Please 
 suggest if we need to strip the first part i.e " Borrower added on 12/22/11 >" or is it not required.
9)Coming to the date variables these are the date variables in the data set 
  
  issue_d:-The month which the loan was funded
   the values for this column are read in r in this format "Dec-11" "Dec-11" "Dec-11" "Dec-11"

  earliest_cr_line:-The month the borrower's earliest reported credit line was opened
  the values for this column are read in r in this format "Jan-85" "Apr-99" "Nov-01" "Feb-96"
  
  last_pymt_d:-Last month payment was received
  the values for this column are read in r in this format "Jan-15" "Apr-13" "Jun-14" "Jan-15"

  last_credit_pull_d:-The most recent month LC pulled credit for this loan
  the values for this column are read in r in this format "May-16" "Sep-13" "May-16" "Apr-16"

all the above date columns are read as characters in R .But inside  excel these values are in date form like 01-12-2011
All the values have month in abbreviated form and a two digit year there is no day of month value.
(please suggest some  ways to convert them to date.) 
  
 
 